---
title: Device Plugin
---

Tested Version:
[1.1.2](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-device/releases/tag/1.1.2)

{{<note>}}
This document is based on the original Cordova docs available at {{<link title="Cordova Docs" href="https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-device">}}.
{{</note>}}

This plugin defines a global `device` object, which describes the
device's hardware and software. Although the object is in the global
scope, it is not available until after the `deviceready` event.

    document.addEventListener("deviceready", onDeviceReady, false);
    function onDeviceReady() {
        console.log(device.cordova);
    }

Plugin ID
---------

{{<syntax>}}
cordova-plugin-device
{{</syntax>}}

Adding the Plugin in Monaca
---------------------------

In order to use this plugin, please [enable](/en/monaca_ide/manual/dependencies/cordova_plugin/#add-plugins) `Device`
plugin in Monaca Cloud IDE.

API Reference
-------------

### Properties

-   device.cordova
-   device.model
-   device.platform
-   device.uuid
-   device.version
-   device.manufacturer
-   device.isVirtual
-   device.serial

### device.cordova

Get the version of Cordova running on the device.

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android
-   iOS
-   Windows

### device.model

The `device.model` returns the name of the device's model or product.
The value is set by the device manufacturer and may be different across
versions of the same product.

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android
-   iOS
-   Windows

#### Quick Example

    // Android:    Nexus One       returns "Passion" (Nexus One code name)
    //             Motorola Droid  returns "voles"
    // iOS:     for the iPad Mini, returns iPad2,5; iPhone 5 is iPhone 5,1. See http://theiphonewiki.com/wiki/index.php?title=Models

    var model = device.model;

#### Android Quirks

-   Gets the [product
    name](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build.html#PRODUCT)
    instead of the [model
    name](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build.html#MODEL),
    which is often the production code name. For example, the Nexus One
    returns `Passion`, and Motorola Droid returns `voles`.

### device.platform

Get the device's operating system name.

    var string = device.platform;

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android
-   iOS
-   Windows

#### Quick Example

    // Depending on the device, a few examples are:
    //   - "Android"
    //   - "iOS"
    var devicePlatform = device.platform;

### device.uuid

Get the device's Universally Unique Identifier
([UUID](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_Unique_Identifier)).

    var string = device.uuid;

#### Description

The details of how a UUID is generated are determined by the device
manufacturer and are specific to the device's platform or model.

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android
-   iOS
-   Windows

#### Quick Example

    // Android: Returns a random 64-bit integer (as a string, again!)
    //          The integer is generated on the device's first boot
    //
    // iPhone: (Paraphrased from the UIDevice Class documentation)
    //         Returns the [UIDevice identifierForVendor] UUID which is unique and the same for all apps installed by the same vendor. However the UUID can be different if the user deletes all apps from the vendor and then reinstalls it. Please see https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UIKit/Reference/UIDevice_Class/#//apple_ref/occ/instp/UIDevice/identifierForVendor

    var deviceID = device.uuid;

#### iOS Quirk

The `uuid` on iOS uses the identifierForVendor property. It is unique to
the device across the same vendor, but will be different for different
vendors and will change if all apps from the vendor are deleted and then
reinstalled.

The UUID will be the same if app is restored from a backup or iCloud as
it is saved in preferences. Users using older versions of this plugin
will still receive the same previous UUID generated by another means as
it will be retrieved from preferences.

### device.version

Get the operating system version.

    var string = device.version;

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android 2.1+
-   iOS
-   Windows

#### Quick Example

    // Android:    Froyo OS would return "2.2"
    //             Eclair OS would return "2.1", "2.0.1", or "2.0"
    //             Version can also return update level "2.1-update1"
    //
    // iPhone:     iOS 3.2 returns "3.2"
    //

    var deviceVersion = device.version;

### device.manufacturer

Get the device's manufacturer.

    var string = device.manufacturer;

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android
-   iOS
-   Windows

#### Example

    // Android:    Motorola XT1032 would return "motorola"
    // iPhone:     returns "Apple"
    //
    var deviceManufacturer = device.manufacturer;

### device.isVirtual

whether the device is running on a simulator.

    var isSim = device.isVirtual;

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android 2.1+
-   iOS
-   Windows

### device.serial

Get the device hardware serial number
([SERIAL](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build.html#SERIAL)).

    var string = device.serial;

#### Supported Platforms

-   Android

